The plot of the Harry Potter series occurs between 1991 and 1998. The exceptions are the opening chapter of the first novel, which takes place in 1981, and the epilogue of the seventh novel, which takes place in 2017. The time period setting is primarily derived from the detail in the second novel that the ghost character Nearly headless Nick is celebrating the 500th anniversary of his death date in 1492.[4][5][6] At various points throughout the Harry Potter timeline, flashbacks and flash-forwards depict time periods ranging from the 1920s to the 2020s. The depiction of the wizarding world is centred on magic, which not only imbues objects such as wands, but is also portrayed as an inborn ability of individuals. This organic ability can be honed and mastered through study and practice.

Wizards expend a great deal of effort keeping muggles unaware of magic and the wizarding world. The novels explain that in the past, the two worlds co-existed. Over the centuries, persecution of wizards by muggles resulted in the creation of laws designed to keep the wizarding world hidden, such as the International Statute of Wizarding Secrecy of 1692. Enchantment of muggle artifacts is forbidden, underage wizards are restricted from using magic outside of school, and any deliberate revelation of magical ability to the muggle community is punishable. These laws are enforced by the British Ministry of Magic and the International Confederation of Wizards. There are some exceptions: muggle relatives of British wizards are allowed to know about the wizarding world, as is the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom.

The film Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them (2016) depicts wizarding laws in the United States during the 1920s. These laws differ in some ways from those in 1990s Britain. For example, the film reveals that American wizards are forbidden from having any social relationships with no-majs / muggles, a condemnatory comparison to the 20th-century American Jim Crow laws and the apartheid system of South Africa.

In the Harry Potter series, some aspects of the wizarding world are depicted as being less-than-modern compared to the muggle world, largely due to the complete incompatibility of magic with electricity. Candles are used for illumination instead of electrical or gas lamps, and owls are used to send messages instead of phone calls or emails. Instead of using pens or computers to take notes and write essays, Hogwarts students use ink-dipped quills and parchment. Wizards do not use paper currency, but instead rely on three types of coins: the gold galleon, equal to 17 silver sickles, which in turn are each equal to 29 bronze knuts — parodying the old pre-decimal British L/S/D coinage system.[7] The wizarding world does have at least one dedicated magical train service, the Hogwarts Express, which is pulled by a steam locomotive. Otherwise, magical carriages are typically camouflaged as goods wagons, cargo vans, and baggage cars on muggle train services, as shown in The Secrets of Dumbledore.[8] The novels depict wizards using a magic-powered equivalent to radio, but there is not an equivalent to television.

The wizarding world of the Harry Potter universe is embedded within the Muggle world. Wizards often live in magical enclaves within muggle villages, such as Godric's Hollow in the West Country. Many wizarding homes in Harry Potter are depicted as being on the outskirts of a muggle town. Only one settlement in Britain, the village of Hogsmeade, is home to an entirely magical population.

The wizarding high street of central London, Diagon Alley, lies just off Charing Cross Road. The Hogwarts Express train departs from King's Cross station using the fictional Platform 9¾. Magical locations are hidden by a combination of muggle-repelling charms, illusions, and other protections. Some magical locations, such as the prison Azkaban and the stadium used for the Quidditch World Cup, are rendered "unplottable", meaning they are impossible to locate on a map. The castle of Hogwarts appears as abandoned ruins to any muggle close enough to see.


Acromantula — A gigantic spider that is capable of human speech. The acromantula is an invention of Rowling.
Augurey — A bird that looks like a skinny vulture, also called an Irish Phoenix. Its cry was once thought to foretell death, but is now understood to foretell rain. In Harry Potter and the Cursed Child, followers of Lord Voldemort were marked with an Augurey tattoo. The augurey is an original creation of Rowling.
Basilisk — A giant snake-like reptile, originating in European classical mythology. In the Harry Potter universe, a person or animal will die if they make direct eye contact with a basilisk, but will be merely petrified (immobilized) if they make indirect eye contact, such as through a mirror.
Boggart — A shapeshifting supernatural creature, originating in English folklore, that takes on the form of its victim's worst fear. In Prisoner of Azkaban, Remus Lupin teaches his students the Riddikulus charm to combat Boggarts. The spell makes a Boggart's appearance less fearsome or even comical. Rowling's Boggarts are derived from those in English folklore.
Centaur — A mythical creature, originating in Greek mythology, with a head and torso resembling those of a human, and with a lower body resembling that of a horse. Centaurs live in forests and are skilled in healing and astrology. Centaurs who associate with humans are often seen as traitors to their kind.
Dementor — A tall, skeletal, black-cloaked creature that drains happiness from people and forces them to relive their worst memories. They can suck a person's soul out through their mouth, which is known as the "Dementor's Kiss". The dementor is an original creation of Rowling.
Giant — A humanoid creature commonly found in all folklore around the globe. In the Harry Potter world, giants have considerable immunity to magical attacks. They can interbreed with humans, but wizards have actively driven them out of civilisation.[13][14]
Goblin — A short and stocky humanoid with black eyes, a domed head and long fingers, originating in European mythology.[15] Goblins run Gringotts Bank and speak a language known as Gobbledegook.[16]
Hippogriff — A mythical creature that is part-eagle, part-horse. Wizards can own hippogriffs provided they cast a daily Disillusionment Charm on them.
House-elf — A type of short, skinny, intensely magical humanoid based on the brownie / broonie of Scottish folklore. Witches and wizards enslave house-elves and they wear discarded items such as pillowcases as part of their servitude, and are freed by being given an item of clothing.
Thestral — A carnivorous species of winged horse visible only to those who have experienced loss through death.[17] They are described as having dragon-like faces, blank white eyes, almost skeletal with just a black coat clinging to the bones and vast leathery wings.[18] Hogwarts has a semi-tamed herd of thestrals, which pull the carriages that transport students to the castle and can be ridden. The thestral is an original creation of Rowling.
Veela — A nymph / fairy, originating in Slavic folklore, that sometimes resembles an exceptionally beautiful woman, and sometimes resesembles a harpy. Veela are known for having the power to bewitch and enchant men.[19]
Werewolf — A cursed human who transforms into a wolf-like creature during the full moon. The person has no control over the process and cannot choose whether or not it occurs. The werewolves in Harry Potter are derived from those found in real-world folklore.
Young wizards in Britain usually attend Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry. Following completion of a Hogwarts education, there is no standard tertiary education, and there are no known wizard universities. Successful Hogwarts students are considered ready to function as adults, though some wizarding professions require special training programmes after Hogwarts. These include the professions of the Auror and the Healer. In addition to Hogwarts, the novels mention the French wizarding school Beauxbatons and the Northern European school Durmstrang. In 2016, Rowling created four additional schools and described them on the Wizarding World website. These four schools are Ilvermorny (United States), Castelobruxo (Brazil), Mahoutokoro (Japan) and Uagadou (Africa)
The Daily Prophet
The Daily Prophet is the most widely read daily newspaper in Britain's wizard community.[22] Its journalistic integrity is lacking; it has been known to be more concerned about sales than about factual accuracy and is often a mouthpiece for the Ministry of Magic. As described by Rita Skeeter, "The Prophet exists to sell itself!"[23]

The Prophet remains respectable for the first three books, but by Goblet of Fire, it has hired Rita Skeeter, an unscrupulous journalist who supplies several thrilling and blatantly false articles.[24] When Minister Fudge takes the stance of firmly denying Voldemort's return, the Prophet initiates a smear campaign against Dumbledore and Harry, the most influential proponents of the opposing view. After Fudge is forced to admit that Voldemort has returned, the Prophet changes its stance overnight, calling Harry "a lone voice of truth".

According to Rowling, Ginny Weasley becomes Senior Quidditch correspondent at the Prophet after the events of the novels.[25][26]

The Quibbler
The Quibbler is a magazine first mentioned in Order of the Phoenix. It is edited by Xenophilius Lovegood and often prints articles about conspiracy theories and cryptozoology. In Order of the Phoenix, Hermione blackmails Rita Skeeter into writing an article about Harry's encounter with Voldemort. The interview is published by Xenophilius, and he later sells it to the Daily Prophet.

Radio
The most popular wizard radio station is the Wizarding Wireless Network. Harry learns about the wizarding band The Weird Sisters from his peers who listen to the WWN. In Deathly Hallows, Ron introduces Harry and Hermione to Potterwatch, an underground anti-Voldemort radio program.

Magical sweets
Many types of magical sweets are mentioned in the series. Some have bizarre side effects, particularly those created by Fred and George Weasley. Chocolate Frogs are packaged with collectible cards depicting famous wizards. According to Rowling, Harry and his friends are featured on Chocolate Frog cards after the events of the novels.[32] Both Chocolate Frogs and Bertie Bott's Every-Flavour Beans have been manufactured in the real world.[33] The Bertie Bott's Beans produced by Jelly Belly include flavours such as black pepper, dirt, earwax, grass, sausage, soap, and vomit.[34][35] The Hershey company has also produced various candy items based on Harry Potter.[36]

Quidditch
Main article: Quidditch
The most prominent sport in the Harry Potter universe is Quidditch, which is a team sport played up in the air on broomsticks. Every House at Hogwarts has a Quidditch team and competes in the Quidditch Cup. Outside of Hogwarts, the Quidditch World Cup is a major international event that draws teams and spectators from countries around the world.

Wizard's Chess
Wizard's Chess is a version of chess played with pieces that are magically animated. In Philosopher's Stone, Harry, Ron and Hermione become human chess pieces in a life-sized game of Wizard's Chess, which Harry wins thanks to Ron's skill at the game.